Release version 3.2.1 (MU3)
Patches:  P17,P18,P19,P23,P27,P28,P29,P30,P31

Component Name                   Version
CLI Server                       3.2.1 (P27)
CLI Client                       3.2.1
System Manager                   3.2.1 (P30)
Kernel                           3.2.1 (MU3)
TPD Kernel Code                  3.2.1 (P17)
TPD Kernel Patch                 3.2.1 (P31)






 
showspace - Show estimated free space for logical disk creation.

SYNTAX
    showspace [options <arg>]

DESCRIPTION
    The showspace command displays estimated free space for logical disk
    creation.

AUTHORITY
    Any role in the system

OPTIONS
    The following options are used to select the logical disk creation
    parameters used for space calculation:

    -cpg <CPG_name>|<pattern>
        Specifies that logical disk creation parameters are taken from CPGs that
        match the specified CPG name or pattern, indicated with a glob-style
        pattern. Multiple CPG names or patterns can be specified using a comma
        separated list, for example cpg1,cpg2,cpg3. Only the -hist option can be
        specified with the -cpg option.

    -hist
        Specifies that free space history over time for CPGs specified with the
        -cpg option is displayed. This option can only be used if the -cpg
        option is specified.

    -t <RAID_type>
        Specifies the RAID type of the logical disk: r0 for RAID-0, r1 for
        RAID-1, r5 for RAID-5, or r6 for RAID-6. If no RAID type is specified,
        the default is r1 for FC and SSD device types and r6 for NL device types.

    -ssz <size_number_chunklets>
        Specifies the set size in terms of chunklets. The default depends on the
        RAID type specified: 2 for RAID-1, 4 for RAID-5, and 8 for RAID-6.

    -rs <size>
        Specifies the number of sets in a row. The <size> is a positive integer.
        If not specified, no row limit is imposed.

    -ss <size_KB>
        Specifies the step size from 32 KB to 512 KB. The step size should be a
        power of 2 and a multiple of 32. The default value depends on raid type and
        device type used. If no value is entered and FC or NL drives are used, the
        step size defaults to 256 KB for RAID-0 and RAID-1, and 128 KB for RAID-5.
        If SSD drives are used, the step size defaults to 32 KB for RAID-0 and
        RAID-1, and 64 KB for RAID-5. For RAID-6, the default is a function of the
        set size.

    -ha port|cage|mag
        Specifies that the layout must support the failure of one port pair,
        one cage, or one drive magazine (mag).  This option has no meaning
        for RAID-0.

    -ch first|last
        Specifies the chunklet location preference characteristics: either first
        (attempt to use the lowest numbered available chunklets) or last(attempt
        to use the highest numbered available chunklets). If no argument is
        specified, the default characteristic is first.

    -p <pattern>
        Specifies a pattern for candidate disks. Patterns are used to select
        disks that are used for creating logical disks. If no pattern is
        specified, the option defaults to Fibre Channel (FC) disks. If
        specified multiple times, each instance of the specified pattern adds
        additional candidate disks that match the pattern. The -devtype pattern
        cannot be used to mix Nearline (NL), FC, and Solid State Drive (SSD)
        drives.

        The following arguments can be specified as patterns for this option:
        -nd <item>
            Specifies one or more nodes. Nodes are identified by one or more
            integers (item).  Multiple nodes are separated with a single comma
            (e.g. 1,2,3). A range of nodes is separated with a hyphen (e.g. 0-
            7). The primary path of the disks must be on the specified node(s).
        -st <item>
            Specifies one or more PCI slots. Slots are identified by one or more
            integers (item). Multiple slots are separated with a single comma
            (e.g. 1,2,3). A range of slots is separated with a hyphen (e.g. 0-
            7). The primary path of the disks must be on the specified PCI
            slot(s).
        -pt <item>
            Specifies one or more ports. Ports are identified by one or more
            integers (item). Multiple ports are separated with a single comma
            (e.g. 1,2,3). A range of ports is separated with a hyphen (e.g. 0-
            4). The primary path of the disks must be on the specified port(s).
        -cg <item>
            Specifies one or more drive cages. Drive cages are identified by one
            or more integers (item). Multiple drive cages are separated with a
            single comma (e.g. 1,2,3). A range of drive cages is separated with
            a hyphen (e.g. 0-3). The specified drive cage(s) must contain disks.
        -mg <item>
            Specifies one or more drive magazines. (The "1." or "0." displayed
            in the CagePos column of showpd output indicating the side of the
            cage is omitted when using -mg.) Drive magazines are identified by
            one or more integers (item). Multiple drive magazines are separated
            with a single comma (e.g. 1,2,3). A range of drive magazines is
            separated with a hyphen(e.g. 0-7). The specified drive magazine(s)
            must contain disks.
        -pn <item>
            Specifies one or more disk positions within a drive magazine. Disk
            positions are identified by one or more integers (item). Multiple
            disk positions are separated with a single comma(e.g. 1,2,3). A
            range of disk positions is separated with a hyphen(e.g. 0-3). The
            specified position(s) must contain disks.
        -dk <item>
            Specifies one or more physical disks. Disks are identified by one or
            more integers(item). Multiple disks are separated with a single
            comma (e.g. 1,2,3). A range of disks is separated with a hyphen(e.g.
            0-3).  Disks must match the specified ID(s).
        -tc_gt <number>
            Specifies that physical disks with total chunklets greater than the
            number specified be selected.
        -tc_lt <number>
            Specifies that physical disks with total chunklets less than the
            number specified be selected.
        -fc_gt <number>
            Specifies that physical disks with free chunklets greater than the
            number specified be selected.
        -fc_lt <number>
            Specifies that physical disks with free chunklets less than the
            number specified be selected.
        -devid <model>
            Specifies that physical disks identified by their models be
            selected. Models can be specified in a comma-separated list.
            Models can be displayed by issuing the "showpd -i" command.
        -devtype <type>
            Specifies that physical disks must have the specified device type
                (FC for Fibre Channel, NL for Nearline, SSD for Solid State
            Drive to be used. Device types can be displayed by issuing the
            "showpd" command. If it is not specified, the default device type
            is FC.
        -rpm <number>
            Drives must be of the specified relative performance metric, as
            shown in the "RPM" column of the "showpd" command.
            The number does not represent a rotational speed for the drives
            without spinning media (SSD). It is meant as a rough estimation of
            the performance difference between the drive and the other drives
            in the system.  For FC and NL drives, the number corresponds to
            both a performance measure and actual rotational speed. For SSD
            drives, the number is to be treated as a relative performance
            benchmark that takes into account I/O's per second, bandwidth and
            access time.

        Disks that satisfy all of the specified characteristics are used.
        For example -p -fc_gt 60 -fc_lt 230 -nd 2 specifies all the disks that
        have greater than 60 and less than 230 free chunklets and that are
        connected to node 2 through their primary path.

SPECIFIERS
    None.

NOTES
    The -cpg and -hist options cannot be used with any other option.

    The showspace command includes chunklets in the process of being initialized
    as shown by the "Normal, Unused, Uninit" column of showpd -c. The space
    represented by these chunklets will not actually be available until the
    initialization process is complete.

    The space calculated is an estimate and not an exact figure.

    For this command MB = 1048576 bytes.

EXAMPLES
    The following example displays the estimated free space for a RAID-1
    logical disk:

        cli% showspace -t r1

